---
layout: post
title: Boeing 737-800
date: 2015-06-15 14:20:00
categories: blog
---

## Boeing 737-800 Analysis Tutorial
1. Locate the tutorial script folder, SUAVE/scripts/tutorial. If necessary cd to this directory.
2. Open the tut_mission_B737.py script in your favorite editor or IDE
3. The setup is divided into several steps:
	* Specify the analyses used under base_analysis()
	* Define the vehicle in vehicle_setup()
	* Establish different configurations in configs_setup()
	* Define the flight profile in mission_setup()
4. Let's just run it as it is for now. Run the script in either the IDE or in a terminal: python tut_mission_B737.py
5. Enjoy the beautiful plots that created.
6. Now, let's modifiy the mission and see what changes
	* Find mission_setup() and then the cruise segment
	* Change the airspeed in segment.airspeed to 500.0 * Units['knots'], notice that SUAVE understands and converts for you units.
	* Find the second descent segment, change the descent rate to 800.0 * Unit['feet/min'].
	* Rerun the mission as before and notice the changes in the profile.
7. Similarly the vehicle parameters can be changed. We will let the

##Update

The tutorial shows how the user can set up a conventional aircraft configuration and a mission the aircraft is to fly and 
then simulate the aircraft's performance over the defined mission. The code is divided into a number of functions that are called 
from the main function. The descriptions in the functions clearly explain the function's inputs and outputs and the actions performed
on the functions.

###Steps to simulate the aircraft's performance over a mission :

1) Locate the tutorial script folder, SUAVE/scripts/tutorial. If using the command line, cd to this directory.
2) Open the tut_mission_B737.py script in your favorite editor or IDE.
2) The script is setup to run the B737 on its design mission. Run it in your IDE. If using the command line use the command

<pre><code class="python"> $python tut_mission_B737_800.py  </code></pre>

3) A few plots depicting the variation of the different aircraft performance parameters (Cl,Cd,etc) over the course of the mission are shown.


###Important Functions :

The script is divided into a set of functions that setup different aspects of the modellling process. The important functions are:

#### vehicle_setup() 
function is where the aircraft's geometry is specified.

#####Setting up a wing 

<pre><code class="python">
wing = SUAVE.Components.Wings.Main_Wing()
wing.tag = 'main_wing'

wing.aspect_ratio            = 10.18
wing.sweep                   = 25 * Units.deg
wing.thickness_to_chord      = 0.1
wing.taper                   = 0.16
wing.span_efficiency         = 0.9

wing.spans.projected         = 35.66    

wing.chords.root             = 6.81
wing.chords.tip              = 1.09
wing.chords.mean_aerodynamic = 4.235

wing.areas.reference         = 124.862 

wing.twists.root             = 3.0 * Units.degrees
wing.twists.tip              = 3.0 * Units.degrees

wing.origin                  = [20,0,0]
wing.aerodynamic_center      = [3,0,0] 

wing.vertical                = False
wing.symmetric               = True
wing.high_lift               = True

wing.dynamic_pressure_ratio  = 1.0

vehicle.append_component(wing)
</code></pre>

#####Setting up the fuselage

<pre><code class="python">
fuselage = SUAVE.Components.Fuselages.Fuselage()
fuselage.tag = 'fuselage'

fuselage.seats_abreast         = 6
fuselage.seat_pitch            = 1

fuselage.fineness.nose         = 1.6
fuselage.fineness.tail         = 2.

fuselage.lengths.nose          = 6.4
fuselage.lengths.tail          = 8.0
fuselage.lengths.cabin         = 28.85 
fuselage.lengths.total         = 38.02 
fuselage.lengths.fore_space    = 6.
fuselage.lengths.aft_space     = 5.    

fuselage.width                 = 3.74 

fuselage.heights.maximum       = 3.74  
fuselage.heights.at_quarter_length          = 4. 
fuselage.heights.at_three_quarters_length   = 4. 
fuselage.heights.at_wing_root_quarter_chord = 4. 

fuselage.areas.side_projected  = 3.74* 38.02 
fuselage.areas.wetted          = 446.718 
fuselage.areas.front_projected = 12.57

fuselage.effective_diameter    = 3.74 

fuselage.differential_pressure = 5.0e4 * Units.pascal # Maximum differential pressure

vehicle.append_component(fuselage)

</code></pre>

#####Setting up the propulsion system




####config_setup()  :



####mission_setup() 
To modify the baseline mission that the aircraft flies, go to the mission_setup() function and add ot delete segments of the mission

<pre><code class="python">
segment = Segments.Cruise.Constant_Speed_Constant_Altitude(base_segment)
segment.tag = "cruise"

segment.analyses.extend( analyses.cruise )

segment.air_speed  = 230.412 * Units['m/s']
segment.distance   = 4666.08 * Units.km #  4704.08 * Units.km # 5463.4 * Units.km  #(3933.65 + 770) * Units.km

mission.append_segment(segment)
</code></pre>


####base_analysis() 
Also to leverage SUAVE's multifidelity capability and use a different fidelity analysis for any of the disciplines (aerodynamics,propulsion, stability, etc), the base_analysis function can be modified by switching out an analysis module for a different one.


###Modifying the Aircraft's Geometry or Mission :

Suppose we want to simulate a high span variant of the B737-800. The span is increased to 40.0 m. We assume the wing chords, sweep, taper ratio, 
thickness to chord ratio remain the same. Thus changing the span only changes the aspect ratio and the wing area.

Now we try to fly the aircraft at a lower cruise speed  of 200m/s at a cruise altitude of 25000 ft

1) To update the geometry, scroll to the vehicle_setup() function
2) Modify the parameters of the main wing

<pre><code class="python">
wing.aspect_ratio            =       #10.18
wing.spans.projected         = 40.0  #35.66    
wing.areas.reference         =       #124.862
</code></pre>

You may also need to update the referenc area for the aircraft.

<pre><code class="python">
vehicle.reference_area         =     #124.862
</code></pre>

3) Update the mission parameters by moving to the mission_setup() function
4) First update the end altitude of the final climb segment

   
<pre><code class="python">
segment = Segments.Climb.Constant_Speed_Constant_Rate(base_segment)
segment.tag = "climb_3"

segment.analyses.extend( analyses.cruise )

segment.altitude_end = 10.668 * Units.km
segment.air_speed    = 226.0  * Units['m/s']
segment.climb_rate   = 3.0    * Units['m/s']

mission.append_segment(segment)
</code></pre>



5) Next update the cruise segment velocity to  the new speed value  

<pre><code class="python">
segment = Segments.Cruise.Constant_Speed_Constant_Altitude(base_segment)
segment.tag = "cruise"

segment.analyses.extend( analyses.cruise )

segment.air_speed  = 230.412 * Units['m/s']
segment.distance   = 4666.08 * Units.km 
mission.append_segment(segment)
</code></pre>

6) Now go back and run the mission for the updated geometry and mission using the steps specified in 'Steps to run the aircraft on a mission'




