---
layout: post
title: Solar UAV
date: 2015-06-15 23:22:20
categories: blog
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="//cdn.jsdelivr.net/highlight.js/8.6/styles/default.min.css">
<script src="//cdn.jsdelivr.net/highlight.js/8.6/highlight.min.js"></script>
<script>hljs.initHighlightingOnLoad();</script>

##Introduction

The purpose of this tutorial is to educate users on how to setup a preconfigured energy network to work with a high altitude solar UAV. In this tutorial it is assumed that the user has some familiarity with SUAVE having completed the canonical tutorial for the Boeing 737-800.  You will learn about setting up the following:

* Solar mission setup,
* human powered/solar weight estimation,
* setting boundary layer transition
* solar panels, batteries,
* electric motors, 
* propellers,
* electric network integration in a solar UAV

Because of the flexible nature of SUAVE, the approach shown is just one way to setup the UAV for analysis. By experimenting and eventually developing your own code you will be able to do far more than what is shown in this tutorial. The original script can be found in /scripts/tutorials/tut_Solar_UAV.py.

##Vehicle and Mission

The mission to be solved is similar to the Qinetiq Zephyr but far larger at 40 meters in wing span and weighs in at 200 kg. However, it does carry double the payload of the Zephyr at 5 kg and accounts for constant payload power usage. The battery energy density is set to an optimistic estimate of 450 Watt-hours per kg. Additionally, 90 percent of the wings are covered with solar panels that have a 25 percent efficiency. 

This mission exercises the methods developed for solar radiation estimation, propeller, and motor integration, as well as the human powered aircraft weight estimation. The mission setup is a constant altitude cruise at 15 km at Mach 0.12 for 24 hours. The location is over the California Bay Area during the summer solstice. 

##Setup

This tutorial highlights the differences between setting up a typical aircraft and a solar UAV.

###Mission Setup

<pre><code class="python">
    segment.state.numerics.number_control_points = 64
    segment.start_time                           = time.strptime("Tue, Jun 21 11:30:00  2015", "%a, %b %d %H:%M:%S %Y",)
    segment.altitude                             = 15.0  * Units.km 
    segment.mach                                 = 0.12
    segment.distance                             = 3050.0 * Units.km
    segment.battery_energy                       = vehicle.propulsors.network.battery.max_energy*0.2 #Set the battery charge to start
    segment.latitude                             = 37.4300
    segment.longitude                            = -122.1700
</code></pre>

Some stuff 

###Structural Weight Sizing

<pre><code class="python">
    wing.number_ribs             = 26.
    wing.number_end_ribs         = 2.
</code></pre>

###Wing Boundary Layer Transition

<pre><code class="python">
    wing.transition_x_upper      = 0.6
    wing.transition_x_lower      = 1.0
</code></pre>

###Solar Panels

<pre><code class="python">
    panel.area                 = vehicle.reference_area
    panel.efficiency           = 0.25
    panel.mass_properties.mass = panel.area*0.60
</code></pre>


###Batteries

<pre><code class="python">
    bat = SUAVE.Components.Energy.Storages.Batteries.Constant_Mass.Lithium_Ion()
    bat.mass_properties.mass = 55.0 * Units.kg
    bat.specific_energy      = 450.*Units.Wh/Units.kg
    bat.resistance           = 0.05
    initialize_from_mass(bat,bat.mass_properties.mass)
    net.battery              = bat
</code></pre>

###Motor

<pre><code class="python">
    motor = SUAVE.Components.Energy.Converters.Motor()
    motor.resistance           = 0.008
    motor.no_load_current      = 4.5
    motor.speed_constant       = 120.*(2.*np.pi/60.) # RPM/volt converted to rad/s     
    motor.propeller_radius     = prop.prop_attributes.tip_radius
    motor.propeller_Cp         = prop.prop_attributes.Cp
    motor.gear_ratio           = 12. # Gear ratio
    motor.gearbox_efficiency   = .98 # Gear box efficiency
    motor.expected_current     = 160. # Expected current
    motor.mass_properties.mass = 2.0
    net.motor                  = motor   
</code></pre>

###Propeller

<pre><code class="python">
    prop_attributes = Data()
    prop_attributes.number_blades       = 2.0
    prop_attributes.freestream_velocity = 40.0 # freestream m/s
    prop_attributes.angular_velocity    = 150.*(2.*np.pi/60.0)
    prop_attributes.tip_radius          = 4.25
    prop_attributes.hub_radius          = 0.05
    prop_attributes.design_Cl           = 0.7
    prop_attributes.design_altitude     = 14.0 * Units.km
    prop_attributes.design_thrust       = 0.0
    prop_attributes.design_power        = 3500.0
    prop_attributes                     = propeller_design(prop_attributes)

    prop = SUAVE.Components.Energy.Converters.Propeller()
    prop.prop_attributes = prop_attributes
    net.propeller        = prop
</code></pre>

##Running

<pre><code class="bash">

</code></pre>

##Results

##Analyses References
