---
layout: post
title: Concorde
date: 2017-01-09 14:25:00
categories: blog
description: Go Supersonic !

permalink: /guides/concorde.html
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="//cdn.jsdelivr.net/highlight.js/8.6/styles/default.min.css">
<script src="//cdn.jsdelivr.net/highlight.js/8.6/highlight.min.js"></script>
<script>hljs.initHighlightingOnLoad();</script>

## Concorde Tutorial


This tutorial gives an overview of changes made to the setup to evaluate a supersonic mission.

### Aerodynamics Module:

To allow aerodynamic calculations in supersonic flight, we use the zero fidelity supersonic module. This is quite easy to swap with the subsonic zero fidelity model. This model and the zero fidelity subsonic module are in the same directory, so they can be switched by changing a single line in the analysis section:

```
aerodynamics = SUAVE.Analyses.Aerodynamics.Fidelity_Zero()
```

to

```
aerodynamics = SUAVE.Analyses.Aerodynamics.Supersonic_Zero()
```
The supersonic aerodynamics module can still handle the subsonic portions of the flight.

### Wing Additions:

Some of the calculations are changed to account for different properties that are not automatically captured in the model.

* Vortex lift is set to true. This causes the vortex lift module to add a Cl increment to the aircraft.
* High Mach is set to true. This changes the way that high subsonic compressibility drag is calculated and brings it more in line with Concorde behavior.

```
    wing.vortex_lift             = True
```

```
    wing.high_mach               = True
```

Note also that Concorde does not have a horizontal tail, so this is not included in the vehicle setup.

### Turbojet Module:

Since Concorde has a diverging nozzle that allows for supersonic outflow, a modified turbojet is used that can account for this. This turbojet is again switched out with a single line.

```
nozzle = SUAVE.Components.Energy.Converters.Supersonic_Nozzle()
```

instead of 

```
nozzle = SUAVE.Components.Energy.Converters.Expansion_Nozzle()  
```

### Mission Segments:

The mission typically flown by Concorde calls for mission segments that are not utilized in the Boeing 737 case. These are Mach number dependent, and require different inputs from the segments previously given. 
The new mission segments are linear Mach constant rate (climb and descent). Both require a starting and ending Mach number, which will vary linearly in time over the descent. For example check the third climb segment:


    segment = Segments.Climb.Linear_Mach_Constant_Rate(base_segment)
    segment.tag = "climb_3"
    
    segment.analyses.extend( analyses.cruise )
    
    segment.altitude_end = 7.60   * Units.km
    segment.mach_start   = 0.64
    segment.mach_end     = 1.0
    segment.climb_rate   = 5.05  * Units['m/s']

### Takeoff and Landing Configuration

Since Concorde does not have flaps or slats, specific takeoff and landing configurations are not used. 
